all right everybody welcome to the
stellar open protocol discussion um
thanks for being here thanks to all the
panelists
just a reminder the goal of these
meetings is to talk about and plan for
changes to upcoming versions of the
stellar protocol
specifically we go over core advancement
proposals caps for short
which are open source specs that
describe suggested new features designed
to evolve the protocol to meet ecosystem
needs
so caps they have a life cycle they go
through various phases
discussion draft final comment period
acceptance and implementation
before they're finalized added to a
major release of stellar core
and put forward to validators who
ultimately decide whether or not to
accept the changes by upgrading the
network
so actually if all goes well today we
may attempt to move a cap from draft to
final comment period
we'll see what happens very exciting
procedural stuff there
if we do we'll post a notice on the
stellar dev mailing list and there's a
link to that in the meeting description
uh at which point anyone who has
comments or questions or suggestions
has one week to respond before we decide
to either reopen the discussion
or mark the cap as accepted so that's
what happens if we move this cap into
final comment period
so last time we started the meeting with
personal introductions
um but today i think we'll skip that
just to keep things moving along
all the participants are listed in the
event description so if you want to know
who's who just do a quick search
or look at last last protocol meeting
where a lot of the same participants
there's also a q a box where you can
submit questions we probably won't go
through them one by one during the
meeting but we do look at them
they do inform our discussions and
decisions so if you have a question
about what we're discussing and again
please about what we're discussing
feel free to raise it there so fair
warning this is a technical discussion
about a specific proposal and if you
want to keep up i suggest reading
through the cap
which is also linked to in the meeting
description that will give you context
now today today we will continue our
discussion from the last meeting about
cap 35
which defines a method for allowing an
issuer to claw back an asset
in order to support regulatory
requirements so it can be used for
instance to recover assets that have
been fraudulently obtained
to respond to regulatory actions or to
enable someone who can improve their
identity to recover an asset in the
event of key loss or theft
now remember i said we do actually pay
attention to the qa
well based on some questions that came
in last time it seems like there's a bit
of confusion about this proposal
so before we begin i just want to give a
quick overview to attempt to clarify a
few things
so based on questions that came in last
time um
this is kind of what i i want to point
out right
the proposal would introduce an optional
feature for assets and it does that by
creating new authorization flags and new
operations to take advantage of them
the goal is to add new functionality to
stellar that would make it easy
to issue regulated assets now these new
flags will have no effect on accounts
that already hold an asset
that means if clawback is not enabled
when you obtain an asset it can't be
enabled for you
issuer can't just come in and change the
rules after the fact
also when an asset has clawback enabled
that fact will be clearly visible on the
issuing account
and on the holders account in other
words a potential holder
will know in advance that an asset has
clawback enabled
they'll look at the asset they'll see
that it has clawback enabled and if they
decide to
they can hold it and they do so fully
informed with eyes wide open right
people opt into holding these assets and
that's a pretty
pretty important point um i i sort of
mentioned all that just to clarify some
some some questions that came up last
time does anyone else before we dig in
does anyone else have anything to add
are we just ready to go
cool so
cap 35. um the current state of this it
is in draft mode
uh the question that i think we're
ultimately trying to get to is is it
ready
to move into final comment period
pending acceptance
but there are a couple of changes that
have happened since last time
there are some bug fixes that address
comments and
there's a new set trustline's flag set
trustline flags up
that allows an issuer to remove clawback
the clawback flag so
i i i think just open up does anyone
have any comments or questions
about the changes since we last met
so i i think that uh the first of all i
just want to congratulate the authors i
think it's
gotten a lot better um uh
i have kind of like i don't know three
quick comments that like maybe
are just changes you can make or or not
and then one like
point for more detailed discussion so i
don't know how how
you want to go through this if we should
start raising points or
go around robin or what why don't you
start with the three quick points
let's just hear what those are okay so
one again this is kind of trivial but in
this
set trust line flags off the clear flags
and set flags or pointers and i was
wondering
why that is uh is that for future
extensibility in case we have like
multiple banks of flags or something we
want to turn it into a union because
otherwise
if you just have a an integer if you
zero then you're not setting any flags
or clearing any flags
so it seems like the optionality had was
there's like redundant
mechanisms to not do anything i'm just
curious for the rationale
so it matches uh what set options
uh does right which is like if you if
you don't want to change clear options
or
like like you don't want to clear any
flags you can just set it to no
right so i just follow that i don't i
think your approach is fine as well
uh i do think we there's an advantage in
keeping it the same
as uh set options but sorry i thought
that instead options that actually
actually
set the thing to a particular value
whereas here we're actually setting or
clearing bits
so it's like a different so set options
it is the same as set trustline flag so
i think you're thinking about allow
trust
that sets it oh right right uh so yeah
the goal here was to make it make it
similar to uh set options and that you
you control specific bits um
okay well it's not it's not again this
is pretty minor point i raise it it
sounds like there's a rationale so it's
not
not a huge deal um the
uh the other question so another
question is
should we deprecate allow trust stop now
that we have set
uh trustline flags up
i i think so i think we should uh but
that would be just something to mention
like you know we don't have to like
remove it or anything but we can just
deprecate it and like
slowly you know eventually maybe like
you know way down the line remove some
some of these obsolete
operations um so third kind of
quick point or suggestion is um
in the set line trustline flags op
instead of having an asset code
should we think about putting an asset
there
and let me make the case so it's not cut
and dry but there are advantages
obviously you might say well right now
it's like completely redundant because
the issuer should be implicit in
whatever the source account is for the
operation
however i can imagine situations where
down the line we might not want that to
be the case and here's kind of two
scenarios where
having the full uh asset in there would
would make this easier so one is maybe
there's certain flags that like
the issuer can like add the flag or
remove the flag but you can add the flag
or something so we actually want the
owner of the trust line to be able to
change some of the flags and the issuer
to be able to change other flags or
maybe
the owner can do it in one direction the
issue or in another direction the second
thing
which kind of comes back to this point
of feedback that i've gotten
a lot from talking to people which is
the annoying thing that if you issue a
bunch of assets
you uh and you want a fixed quantity
that
uh if you lock the um the high threshold
of the account to known as high
threshold you can no longer rotate the
keys that are used to like authorize
trust lines and so i don't think we want
to fix this today but
one thing that one can imagine down the
line maybe is adding like a super user
flag to like your trust line which
allows you to
not only hold the asset but actually
authorize other people to hold the asset
right i realized like
maybe we do want to do this maybe we
don't want to do this it means looking
at another
uh entry in the database when you're
transaction processing so there's
arguments against it but uh but but that
would
solve this problem you could like issue
an asset you could like create you could
basically create a super user account to
to manipulate trust lines and then you
could completely lock the original
account and then you could still rotate
uh uh keys in the other account so
just having the full asset in there
would allow us to do that because it
would allow us this level of indirection
that a different account
could be the one uh authorizing at the
authorizing trust lines
and i just just to clarify you mean
the asset code versus the full asset you
mean the aztec code say usd
versus having usd colon issuer of that
asset
exactly exactly um and so
the issuer is redundant because it's the
source account always but
i can imagine future situations where we
don't want to require that to be the
case
actually i would say i would support
that like originally actually in the
original proposal i didn't i didn't care
for the clawback operation so to not
specify the
full uh asset
because at the time we only had our
trust
but if we're going to make the change to
this new adult trust
like we would also make the change to
clawback right and then now we end up
with like
this is completely open and and in the
future we can easily
make that without having to add new
operations basically
so yeah i totally support that i just
want to echo this
i've been hearing from partners uh this
desire to basically delegate
um um delegate the ability to allow
trust
to separate accounts um right now
we you know we we uh we
promote this idea of everyone needs to
have access to the issue or account and
a low threshold but there are a lot of
issues with this
so if the issuer can actually delegate
this authority to other accounts
uh then um i think that um
is great
cool so i have one more issue that
probably is might require more
discussion so i'll maybe defer if other
people have quicker things we can come
back to the longer running ones
i think uh i thought something i want to
comment on this is i think this is
really great the idea that we can we can
in the future possibly delegate who
could run these operations
as opposed to being the issuer i think
that
that relates in some ways back to a
previous conversation we had about
clawback and the fact that
um right now clawback is only going to
return
the asset to the issuer and there's no
ability to specify a destination
because i think if we if we start
thinking and i think that decision was
completely fine if we think about
clawback being something only that the
issuer operates
um because if they claw something back
they can always then issue the asset
themselves again
but when we start talking about making
it flexible enough
so that a delegated account could cause
the clawback
then the clawback is going to return to
the issuer um so then
then we have that no no in that case it
would have to go back to the
source account right which would be this
uh
this other account so i think it would
be consistent with
the behavior
okay in a in a thick attack situation
you would actually not be burning uh
assets in this situation you would
actually
uh be moving assets from the account
being called back to the
this kind of uh you know type of account
so is the clawback mechanism set up to
claw back to the source account
currently why it's implicit right it's
implicit okay
i mean we could add a destination
account so imagine a situation where
whenever you claw back
you actually want to send it to some
like arbitrator who's gonna like decide
whether this is just or not
or something as a way to although
really you'd want to kind of force that
so maybe that's not such a good idea i
think it's better to have it like
go back to the source icon if you're the
issuer you end up burning it and then
if you want to send it to an arbitrator
that's actually the second operation and
then you do have
clear kind of separation of like
what is actually happening the history
so it sounds like we do we do need to
change the definition
in the cup slightly just to be more
clear that the clawback is
returning the asset to the source
account and right now the source count
is only the issuer
um but like because i think right now
this language that talks more is more
focused on clawback
burning the asset rather than moving it
so so to be clear
like in in cap 35 would not be
uh like it actually doesn't make sense
to do clawback from a
non-issue icon because you know you
can't actually
you don't have the right to do it uh but
i agree in terms of wording
i can actually say so second right it
will just work because
you know adding this functionality is
actually uh adds a bunch of complexity
uh that i don't want to do in capital e5
because you have like limits and all
that stuff that
the shirt doesn't have so you have like
new fader modes
and so the suggestion is just to
slightly tweak the language so it's
clear
that while we're at it i did notice one
really nitpicky thing which is that um
this new operation that was added
recently um
set trust lines flag op does appear in
the semantics
but not in the abstract so while
someone's going to tweet that language
my request is please add that to the
abstract portion of the cap
i can take that
cool does does anything does anyone have
anything else before we
take here david's more potentially
rabbit hole question so i have i have
one comment
related to the uh the suggestion to make
the asset code an asset
we uh in in the original subtraction
flags proposal there was there's a
similar
change allowed you allowed either the
issuer or the owner of the trust line to
operate on the
operation or operate on the on the
trustline flag and one concern that came
up
that john brought up was that he would
he preferred
he would prefer it if we just use a
different operation for
if the owner wanted to modify the
trustline flag uh because he
said you know it would be it would make
it would be clearer than allowing this
like this other this brand new
functionality which we don't even allow
at the moment right uh i
i personally i i don't think it's
it matters that much i think it's fine
if we if we enable the the owner
of the trustline to modify a flag in the
future but that that is one
concern that he had so that's a decision
we're not taking that decision today
like that may be perfectly fine
all we're saying is we're gonna leave
the flexibility not otherwise we'd be
making a decision today that we have to
do it that way and we're leaving our
options open
that was only one of the two uses that i
could think of off the top of my head of
having a full asset instead of the asset
code the other one being this delegation
which
both tomer and i guess have heard uh uh
requests for from people okay yeah i
think that makes sense
all right david i think we're ready for
your bigger question okay
so the so the bigger question
um is and i don't know what to do about
this
and maybe it's not that big a deal but
the the
when you when you're clawing back a
claimable balance
um the the problem is that that whether
or not you can clawback a claimable
balance
depends on the person who created the
claimable balance
not the person who can uh redeem it
right who can claim it um and this seems
like
a little bit unfortunate in terms of uh
for example you know how you
arbitrate a situation where like you
know i i sent you a clamo balance and
then
like i couldn't claim it anymore so i
considered it was yours but it somehow
got
clawed back before you were able to
claim the money
um and uh and maybe you had some special
arrangement where like you didn't have
clawback or
or something um so so this is
uh so this is bad and another thing
where i think this would come a lot is
kind of
at the end of some complicated protocol
like a payment channel or something
where you kind of like at the end of the
day i give you a bunch of assets and you
give me a bunch of assets
now it's sort of like uh i would expect
one of those
oh you know you both either both to
happen or neither and now there's a
possibility that kind of the wrong one
could get clawed back like my funds
could get caught back
because you were subject uh to clawback
uh but you were the one who'd like
created this claimable balance
so given that the claimant you know
given that you can't
you don't necessarily know who can um
well anyway so that that's the problem
so should we do something about this and
do we care and if so you know what
should we do i mean like to me that's
that's that's actually why i wanted to
have this flag in the first place on the
on the balance entry because you know if
you have if you don't have
a clawback enabled on the balanced entry
basically
it's uh immune to kind of interference
like that from
for smart contracts yeah for the for the
ones that do have that flag enabled i
agree
um uh as soon as you
as you touch it as an issuer you're
actually kind of blowing up a whole
smart contract and i
yeah but the problem is like it feels
like in most cases you'll be
blowing up the wrong leg of a smart
contract
you don't know the problem is that you
don't know yeah
so you have to do a lot of like offline
type of
uh kind of
work before actually doing this claim
can you explain to me what the use case
would be in this situation
how you'd be using payment channel
payment channels
with claimable balances for assets that
had clawback enabled
like is this something that there's that
a reasonable person would be using these
assets in that way sure i mean
this like whether or not you want to use
the payment channel on an asset should
be
kind of independent of whether you can
claw it back or not
um but uh but the point is that like
most in most of these protocols you kind
of assume that the funds are yours once
you can
claim them um and we're now slightly
changing that
situation and that like they they could
still get clawed back because of
something bad that the issuer did even
if the recipient
has some kind of a non-clawback
agreement with the issuer
that would be on the recipient's account
right
on their trustline flags so like the
sender and the recipient both have
this clawback flag they can be set or
onset in their trust line
so if the recipient doesn't have it set
in their trust line then they know ahead
of time that
it can't be changed for them um right
except that
except that they're the the claimable
balance that they can claim
can be uh clawed back uh unless i'm
misunderstanding
right and only if it has the flag only
if the sender had the flag enabled right
so in a way it's like you wish that the
policy had to do with the recipient
rather than the sender i guess
is is kind of what i'm saying but but
that also doesn't work right because you
don't want to
just be you i shouldn't be able to like
protect my funds by like sending them
all making a bunch of
you know claimable balances that people
can't claim and then reclaiming them
afterwards so i don't know what the
solution is it just
it seems like it's something slightly uh
annoying recipients
recipients also don't have to exist at
the time the claim will balance yeah
exactly
exactly so there's a lot but there's no
guarantee we even have that information
i think the only the only things we can
guarantee exists on the network when the
claim balance is created is that the
issuer
exists and the the account holder exists
the original account the sender exists
um and i think if we were to choose from
one or the other where to get that
information from the sender is better
because if we use the issuer then
if the issuer enables clawback then a
sender
whenever they create a claim or balance
it's become going to become clawback
enabled even though they maybe have an
agreement with the issuer
that when they hold the asset it isn't
can't be called back
so i guess my question is what what does
this
where does this conversation lead what
what action needs to be
taken to sort of resolve this issue
i mean you know maybe we can't resolve
it right maybe it's just
um uh yeah
you know it's not there there doesn't
seem to be any ideal solution here
and you know i agree that it's it's kind
of at least as reasonable to have
the flag and a claimable balance be
based on the sender than
to have it be based on the issuer so if
the given that those are
kind of the only two options i can see
on the table
um maybe we just live with it
the spec currently specify using the
sender
i can't remember it is yeah in
everything the
yeah okay so that's the standard because
that way like
like the reason i wanted that in the
first place was because if you're
going to engage in a payment channel
let's say at the beginning like you can
actually look at those flags
that people have on their trust lines
and decide at this point
you actually want to basically take the
risk or not
uh in that payment channel right
if people don't have the flag set you
know that basically you're taking a zero
risk
if you have the flag then you have a
question
um i don't see but the flag can change
like during the execution of a protocol
right so you no no no no
that's the point is that if the flag
once you have if you have the flag
not set people cannot uh like issue i
cannot set it back
it can only be on set okay that's a that
makes it
that's that's why this this works right
like if we are allowing the issuer to
to basically renege on the on this it
also breaks that so that
yeah so so anyone would be up they would
understand
this fact they would opt in to choosing
to use the asset in that way
again eyes wide open yeah like but here
the important bit is like you can
imagine having
some accounts on the network that don't
have that flag enabled even though it is
uh
like the issuer has the callback enabled
but they're like
you know maybe privileged accounts or
something like you know better cheers
basically of accounts that can actually
engage into those uh payment channels
or whatever i like to yeah i agree that
it's not ideal because
like really what you would want is like
any
any asset i mean any account should be
able to
to participate to payment channels but
like
the thing is that as soon as you you
potentially have this third party kind
of interfering
uh it gets really complicated
uh i don't see yeah so i i can basically
live with it i think you guys have
convinced me that this is probably fine
and uh anything else is going to be
worse
i i think i also want to mention i think
this is a limitation of claimable
balances in general in the
claimant balances the only the only
place they can go
is into the account is into a claim
is into the an account that's defined as
a claimant
um and so for their use in smart
contracts there's that limitation
already
um and may like maybe there's room for
improvement
in the future for claimable balances to
have other destinations
so you know you could take funds from a
claim balance and move them into another
claim will balance all into multiple
claimable balances and if you know if
that is ever a possibility in the future
you know that opens up more flexibility
for
smart contracts um because
um you know then we can start talking
about you know they can inherit
the attributes of their previous kind of
balances or different things like that
um but that's i think that's like that's
off topic a bit but
i think there is some limitation that
we're inheriting from the fact that
claimable balances
only have accounts as a destination
okay well i'm satisfied nothing needs to
change in the in the cap
basically after this so the one there's
basically one minor change which is to
replace the asset
code with that oh sorry i meant for the
last part of the decision
sounds like for the other one we agreed
that we'll add a note that
allow trust stop is deprecated and we
will um
we will add to turn the ass in two
places we'll turn an asset code into an
asset i guess right
that's correct i think those are the
changes that we've suggested making does
it does that seem accurate to everyone
else
yeah and if so those feel like pretty
correct me if i'm wrong sid for instance
those feel like pretty minor
changes to execute is that correct yeah
they should be
like that like we could move this into
final comment period pinning those
changes
does that seem correct yeah
all right guys i i say we uh i say we
move this from draft and final comment
period
um i kind of want to do like a formal
process here we have to say i or
nay um so let's do that let's do that
uh nico
yes sid
yes david
chalmer yes eric
yep is that uh is that everybody
i think that's everybody who's on this
call guys i actually have a gavel
so i'm going to strike this gavel and
can you see it and
and now it's officially moved into uh
final comment period
i happen to have that gavel in this room
full of junk i did not go buy it
especially for this i promise um and so
that's mostly it i mean the only other
thing that i guess we could do
uh which we can also decide not to do is
we could talk a bit about where this cap
is because i know that some
implementation has already been done
um do you want to walk us does anyone
want to walk us through that or should
we just
be happy with this sort of procedural
vote that we just had and
close the meeting i think that's
probably enough for now
like in the context of this meeting okay
cool meetings that end early are great
there's
just no reason to stretch out to the
full time if you're done
okay cool so we're going to move into
final comment period pinning those
changes so when they're done i will send
out the official notice on the stellar
dev
list and again anyone who's watching
that gives you a week
to for final suggestions we can reopen
the discussion if it seems necessary
but this is final comment period pending
acceptance
great well we answer the questions we
move this along
i think we're done everybody feel good
great yeah thanks thanks everyone for
coming thanks everyone for watching
see you next time cheers
you